Okay. So, when we're talking about the
issue of secularism,
>> yeah,
>> or not secularism, I'm sorry,
liberalism.
>> Wait, liberalism is what we're
discussing here.
>> So, we'll pull back up on the notes
since we went down that whole train of
nonsense.
>> It's not nonsense. It's like
foundational philosophy. Phil 101.
Really, it's kind of important. You like
to weaponize it for your dumb audience
against mean people to like innocent
only fans girls to be like see their
belief system isn't justified and it's
like no one's name a single time when
I've done that. uh every time you were
on the show.
>> Yeah. So, give me you got do you have
one?
>> Uh yeah. When you debate any secular
person, when you debated Charlie, when
you debate Destiny, when you debated
Nimmo, when you debated Zeno, when you
debated like eternally
your belief system is unjustifiable,
that's a that's a dire thing. Your your
belief I do the opposite. I start at the
end. I just say if it's the case that
it's just preferences, then you have
absolutely no criticism for me imposing
mine. Uh well most most secular people
if they're good on philosophy would say
well it's not just preferences right
it's it's some mixture of like we use if
they're utilitarian they would use
utiles preferences
>> not really these are like there's no
more preferences than you preferring God
>> that's my point
>> but then all of this is empty
>> that's right
>> so your arguments wait but then you have
to grant that your arguments are just as
empty as theirs
>> if that's the case then you would have
no room to criticize me for imposing my
preferences
>> we could because then we could just use
reason and logic and evidence of what
seems to benefit people.
>> Your preference is just my preference. I
>> think I think it's reasonable to assume
that I prefer that what like people are
well that people experience less harm,
right? And I think that's a reasonable
preference to have cuz I want it.
>> Then it's perfectly reasonable for me to
say no.
>> I didn't say it's unreasonable.
>> Then there's nothing to argue there
>> because you're insisting that they're
unjustifiable while you are. And I'm
saying no, you're all unjustifiable, but
both are actually reasonable. You can
have your Christian preferences, but as
a Christian, I'm fighting you and
saying, "Actually, your preferences are
icky and bad for the faith. Don't do
it." Also, Jesus wasn't political, so
you're kind of going against what Jesus
taught. Also bad to do.
>> Okay. So, then back to this when we're
talking about liberalism and the system
of liberalism and you're appealing to
consensus, right? If the consensus is
that they want to kill every third baby,
which is just part of their like
preferences, man, and they assume that
it's fine, you don't you can't actually
critique that thing.
>> Of course you can. We do it all the time
>> with what?
>> Um, you could use util utilitarianism
and you could say actually killing
babies is bad because it makes a worse
world. It harms that specific baby. It
probably also harms the mother, which
would actually decrease the amount of
flourishing and increase the amount of
harm, which is why I think it would be
bad to do. That's what a utilitarian
could say
>> and then say but you would say that that
>> God doesn't like it when you kill babies
unless he orders you to do it like in
the
>> Malachites. And which one of you is
right?
>> Well, we would have to fight. I mean,
the issue is like we have to assume at
the end of
>> fight, right?
>> Yeah. And I would go, I think my
argument is more reasonable. I wouldn't
say my argument is more justifiable at a
foundational level. This is what you do.
You try to say my beliefs are
foundationally justified and yours are
not, which is why I'm reasonable and
you're not. It's like that's not true.
>> Actually, I do the opposite. I start at
the end of the argument and say I agree
with you. It's all
>> just because you the like chronology of
how you get there is different. It
doesn't change that this is the tactic
that you typically utilize when you
debate people.
>> Listen, I'm doing the same thing with
you. We're at the end now.
>> Yeah. You're like I start at the end and
I walk people all the way back to
originals.
>> I'm just asking you
>> and then I go see how silly this is. I'm
not silly. And I'm saying you're just as
unjustified as
a single question here which is that
reason consensus when you're talking
about consensus that that's how you want
things to be, right? Well, no. This is
not an ought. Like, a consensus isn't an
ought. I think it's the best system
that's arrived so far.
>> So, when I asked you a better one,
>> when I asked you earlier, this is an
ought and you said yes. That's not the
case.
>> Uh, well, there's a second part to what
I was saying, I believe, at the time.
>> No, I asked you is consensus how we
ought do, how Christians ought to do
things. You said yes.
>> No, I didn't.
>> Yes, you did.
>> No,
>> I specifically wrote it [laughter] down.
>> If I did, I didn't mean it.
>> You didn't?
>> No, I should have clarified. What do you
actually want to ask here?
>> Yeah. So I want to just ask you about
consensus. So if if they want to kill
every third baby
>> Mhm.
>> Okay.
>> I would oppose this.
>> Yeah. But why would they be actually
wrong?
>> Uh I would for example I would in the
case of a pagan I would probably appeal
to their own moral system. I think that
most people for example I believe you
probably believe this too that God gives
us conscious right he like puts a spirit
inside of us that um God's uh
metaethical system emerges naturally out
of us right? So like what I would do for
example is I would probably first of all
try to examine that pagan's belief
system and I would be like do you
actually think killing babies is okay
right I would I would I would actually
morally question them and one of the
issues is that this is unobservable we
can't truly know whether somebody thinks
something is wrong or right but I think
the knowledge of wrong or right is
really important kind of biblical one
might even say so I would question
whether or not they know it's wrong or
right and then I would appeal to things
like state so like civic ei civic ethics
for example it doesn't work very well in
nations to kill every third baby. You're
just reducing your population. Usually
the mothers don't like it. Usually the
fathers don't like it. Doesn't seem to
have any good outcome. In fact, most the
reasons why people in the past killed
babies was to satisfy some sun god. And
we would go that's not an overly
reasonable argument. It's probably more
reasonable to say we shouldn't kill
babies. That seems more reasonable. So I
could appeal to them within their own
worldview of secularism or their own
worldview of paganism.
>> Sure. And they say, "Fuck you. We don't
care."
>> Are they in my state?
>> Uh, no.
No,
>> they're in another country.
>> Yeah. I'm just asking why they're
[clears throat] wrong. Why they're doing
something wrong?
>> Why they're doing something wrong?
>> Why is that wrong? Yeah.
>> Because I think it's immoral to kill
babies.
>> Why?
>> Because I think God doesn't like you to
kill babies unless he orders it. Like in
the Malikite.
>> Because he assumed you assumed that.
>> I assumed God. Yep.
>> You assumed it. And so they assume
>> Well, I'm assuming God. Yeah.
>> So they assume not God.
>> Yep.
>> And so they come to you and say, "Well,
you're just assuming this anyway."
>> And I would say, "So are you."
>> And then they would say, "Good. We're
going to go back to killing babies." And
the problem with that is why? say, "I'm
going to use my language and quill to
convince you that you're wrong and that
there's a more compelling and better way
to live, and I'm going to appeal to the
spirit that I think God puts into all of
us to try to pull out of you the fact
that murder is actually really bad."
>> I see. So, if a Christian nationalist
does that within a liberal system,
they're not doing anything wrong.
>> Um, yeah. So, you guys can try to compel
people to Christianity, but my issue
isn't
>> No, we can compel you to We can compel
ourselves to the will of the state. Why
not? What's wrong with that?
>> I mean, I don't know what you're saying
right now. If if Christians take over
the entire state, rewrite the entirety
of the Constitution within your liberal
framework,
>> they can in the liberal framework, but
as a Christian, I think that they're
being uncchristian by doing
>> Yeah, but who cares? You're just
assuming it.
>> Um God cares, and I'm assuming that
we're all Christian.
>> Yeah, but I assume God doesn't care.
>> Uh I I would question your Christian
theology.
>> Oh, why? I just assumed it.
>> Scripture. Do you think that like logic,
reason, evidence, scripture doesn't
exist outside of like foundations?
>> It doesn't matter. What matters is what
I assume. How would scripture
[clears throat] not matter when I'm
talking to fellow
>> because I just assume things?
>> Well, no, you don't just assume things.
You're you're equivocating again. So,
what you're doing? Because you're saying
assuming at a foundational. So, when I
say assume, I mean at a foundational
axiomatic level. That is not the same
thing.
>> My axiom is that I'm always right
>> about everything. Why can't it be an
axiom?
>> Because it's not talogical.
>> I'm right because I'm right. That's a
tautology.
>> Yeah. Now you're now I can go I don't
think that's justified and then I would
prove you wrong.
>> Okay, but who cares? You you just said
nothing's justified.
>> Sorry. Are we just doing like nihilism
warp tour? Nobody should care. Nobody
should care about you granted me that
even at Christianity you granted me that
your worldview is just as un uh like
unimportant. So how do you make people
care?
>> Because that makes my point actually
your hands off. You're like ah none of
it matters. My system is just as if it
is the case. Now I at least understand
what you're saying. So great. If it's
the case
>> took uh 2 hours and 15 minutes.
>> Yeah. If it's the case that we're just
assuming the worldview at a foundational
level and it's an axiom I'm right cuz
I'm right now we have a tautology. Then
there's actually no good reason for me
not to assume that I'm just right about
reforming liberalism after my own image.
>> So reason can be includes things like
inductive and deductive logic. This is
the stuff that we build off of our
axioms, right? can
>> well that's what we do that's what all
philosophical systems are that's what
you do that's what I do
>> well that's an assumption
[laughter]
[gasps]
>> this is crazy
>> because foundationally you're assuming
it right
>> oh yeah you're right Andrew everything
doesn't matter anything at all and in
fact everything that you say doesn't
matter and none of your systems are
justified and it's all just arbitrary
and silly
>> so then that's what you're saying too
>> if by your view yeah
>> no no you granted my view you said I'll
grant you a purpose how
>> yeah that this is our view now baby you
said you're joining me. You're in the
agrius dilemma acceptance state. Okay.
>> In fact, then if that's the case,
>> you're just as arbitrary and just as
stupid and we can't assume anything.
>> So So if that's the case,
>> we shouldn't talk about anything. Why
are we here? Let each other finish,
please.
>> So I just want to know.
>> Well, you're in my world. How are you
solving that now?
>> What would the argument What What now is
the argument for me to impose Christian
nationalism?
>> Let me ask that to you. What's your
argument for it?
>> Cuz I want to.
>> You're just assuming that. Cuz I want
to. Yeah. But that you're just assuming
>> that it's a tautology. So I'm supposed
to That doesn't make it right.
>> Exactly. So it's fine to do. So, why are
you saying that it's an ought statement?
>> Wait a second. I'm assuming, right?
>> Yeah. So, why is it an ought statement?
>> Because I want it to be. Cuz I assume
it.
>> Okay. So, your your system is wholly
unjustifiable. There's no reason why
Christians should do it. They're just
like moving on violence.
>> And there's no reason for Christians not
to do it.
>> Okay.
>> Right.
>> Uh I So I believe in a I'm a
foundationalist. So I believe in
>> Yeah. But you assume your foundations
can't be justified.
>> Everyone assumes foundations. You've
already granted me this. Then if that's
the case then who cares what your
foundation is
>> because in philosophy we typically
ground foundations to some extent.
>> We don't do anything in philosophy. I
don't know what you do with philosophy
but
>> okay Mr. Philosopher in in uh any level
of respected philosophy we assume
>> which respected philosophers are you are
you uh are you referencing
>> Plato Socrates uh what are some modern
ones that I can think of?
>> What did Socrates Socrates assumed that
you couldn't justify anything? Well, no.
What he Well, sort of. What we do is we
grant assumptions because we understand
that at a foundational level, they're
all unjustified.
>> All you did was destroy the possibility
for there to be objective morality.
That's it.
>> Nope. Because I think God exists.
>> Yeah. But you just assume it.
>> So, but non-Christians also assume that
he doesn't exist.
>> Yeah. So, then if they have an
anti-moral realist position, you
>> I would use logic and reason to compel
them as to why I'm correct.
>> Okay. Let's assume for a second I'm a
moral anti-realist. Mhm.
>> Use logic and and reason to compel me
when you tell me that your whole
worldview is just assumed.
>> Sorry, [laughter]
you really love that assumed word. Can
you rephrase that in a way that's
coherent?
>> That was coherent, but I'll do it again.
>> Let's assume it wasn't
>> foundationally.
>> Let's assume.
>> I'm a moral anti-realist. Okay.
>> Your moral foundations are assumed.
>> Mhm.
>> And not justified.
>> And I would say, how do you solve a
Grippa tile?
>> No, no, no. You told me the moral
anti-realist that.
>> Yeah. And then the anti-realist goes,
"Well, your opinions are just assumed,
right?" And I go, "Yeah, how do you
solve a group of
>> Why would they need to? They're
anti-realists."
>> So even even
>> you just destroyed the possibility for
objective morality, everybody.
>> No, I didn't. No, even subjectivists
fail a Griffith's trilmma. They fail by
infinite regression.
>> Okay. Again, [laughter] who cares?
>> You forgot about that one, didn't you?
>> That doesn't hurt my argument.
>> Yes, it does. I if I'm an anti-realist,
a moral anti-realist, I say there are no
moral facts and I that is completely and
totally in line with a grippa trilmma.
>> Uh so
a grippa trima would say how do you
solve for infinite regression?
>> Why would I need to?
>> Because it's a fallacy.
[laughter]
>> So thinking is a fallacy.
>> No, infinite regression is a fallacy.
>> Okay, but everything's going to reduce
to infinite to an infinite regress,
right?
>> So what's comes before thinking?
>> Well, that's that would be
transcendentals would come before
thinking.
>> Okay. And what comes before that?
>> Well, we would make the justification of
God, right?
>> So, you're assuming. So, no secular
anti-realists assume God.
>> You?
>> No, not me.
>> You don't assume God.
>> I do assume God. We were talking about
moralist. Andrew, respectfully, we
should probably I don't think you're
ready for this conversation. I don't
think
>> No, I'm having a good time with this
one.
>> I just want to make sure that me, the
moral anti-realist,
>> right, that you are telling me that
objective morality is real, right? And I
would use reason and logic and
argumentation and I would build off of
my foundational axioms that a good faith
moral anti-realist would just grant me.
So they'd be like, "Well, why do you
believe God?" And I'm like, "I just
assume him." And they're like, "Okay,
well, I can't really contend with that.
It's just assumed." And then I build my
entire case for why I think morals are
objective because I think God instilled
them outside of us and that they are in
every person. And I say, "You can see
this in the universal ways in which
morals consistently emerge. We see this
trajectory of humankind moving towards
greater and greater moral systems,
right? free speech and respecting one
another and treating every other one
kindly. And what you'll notice most
importantly is not only are those morals
objective, but they're the Christian
ones because God is real. My God
specifically is real. That's how I would
do that argumentation.
>> Okay. So, are there moral facts?
>> Yeah. Yes.
>> That and are they just assumed?
>> Uh,
yeah. At a foundational level.
>> Okay. So, then any moral facts that I
assume at a foundational level are
equivalent to any moral facts you assume
at a foundational level?
>> No, not equivalent. I didn't say these
are all equivocal.
>> What would make them different?
>> My my use of inductive and deductive
logic is better. I use better reason. I
have more evidence for my
>> better. Hang on. What does better mean
here?
>> Better means like more coherent, more
consistent. Like
>> why is that better?
>> Uh because it seems to produce uh better
thinking. It seems to uh that's a
tautology. [snorts]
>> Yes.
>> It's better because it's better.
>> Yeah. Tautologies. Welcome to Welcome to
Phil.
>> Yeah. So So then I just want to make
sure. So, so you're just going to
endlessly be in a case of infinite
regress and tutology.
>> Sweet of you. I appreciate that.
>> And then and then there's no moral facts
or just assume.
>> Just let me pour my energy drink at
Brian respectfully. And then we'll get
back into you really struggling with
philosophy.
>> Oh, I'm having I'm having a struggle.
That's true.
>> You are.
>> It's very This has been very difficult
for me. I agree. I mean, hey, you've at
least accepted my the reality that your
beliefs are just as unjustified as
everyone else that you mock, which is
great.
>> So, might makes right.
>> No.
>> Yeah, it does. [laughter]
>> Yes, it Why wouldn't it?
>> Uh because of things like coercive power
versus legitimate authority.
>> Who cares about that [__] You're just
assuming it.
>> No. So, again,
>> at its foundation, whatever arguments
you have,
>> all of this around me just doesn't exist
because I'm assuming it.
>> Wait, wait, wait. material things.
>> Yeah.
>> Is philosophy material?
>> Yeah, it can be.
>> How
>> pragmatism is often
>> how
>> pragmatism? Yeah, it's often interested
in like material effects.
>> That's not material.
>> That's you're just saying what it's
>> I am so sorry. Hold on.
>> Party foul. Uh
>> you were so sweet to remind me and then
I destroyed your tech.
>> Did we get all the tech out of the way?
>> Uh can we get paper towels? Yeah, just
uh pass them to Kyla there.
Little [snorts] spillage. It's okay
here. No, no, no. It's all good. We I'll
I'll take care of it. You guys continue
with the debate. It's all good. Don't
worry about it. I'll No, it's all good.
>> Let's get on your stream deck first,
though, so it doesn't get any worse.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Here, let me take care of
it, though. You guys can continue on
with the conversation. It's all good.
It's all good.
>> I'm so sorry about
>> It's okay. I'll continue.
>> So,
>> when I knocked that over, did that
happen materially or did we just all
assume that it happened?
>> Well, I would say that that happened in
material reality.
>> Oh, and so how do we think about that?
like how do we decide that actually it
fell because of gravity versus like God
trying to push it down?
>> Uh we would probably run an experiment
or something like that.
>> Yeah, we would use like reason and logic
to build up a belief system.
>> Well, the thing is though is like
>> that wouldn't make philosophy material.
>> So not all of philos so philosophy like
the uh art of loving wisdom isn't
material but it commentates on material
as well.
>> Yeah, but you just said it was material.
>> Well, part of it can be material. Yeah.
>> Which parts? the the part that is your
brain thinking about things.
>> Is your brain not material?
>> Okay. So, is the philosophy
itself material
>> or is the brain material?
>> The brain's material.
>> Okay. So, then not the philosophy again.
>> I don't know why you think that this is
a dunk. Um saying I said philosophy can
engage in the material. Of course.
>> But you you said
>> and then I said for example, one of the
schools is pragmatism.
>> Yeah. But that's not material.
>> Sure. Okay.
>> Okay. [snorts]
>> You win. You're so smart, Andrew. You
got me. I don't know. Hey, you're way
better at this than me. Help me out,
though. Um, I'm actually fine. Uh, kind
of staying right here.
>> So, you accept that your belief system
is just as unjustifiable.
>> Oh, sure. Especially for the purpose of
this conversation.
>> No, no, no. Not for the purpose of this
conversation. Don't be like bad faith
and presume. It is bad faith to presume
things that you don't actually believe.
Don't do not do not purport to me that
you believe in things that you don't
believe. is definitionally bad faith
>> uh by self-d delusion or selfdeception
or in this case explicit deception
saying yeah I believe this and it's like
no you don't you literally don't
>> got it
>> or do you
>> do I what
>> do you believe that agrip's trilmma
means that all
>> one you convinced me
>> okay so now I I'm not I don't know what
to do with this I guess falling into
snark is your way of solving your bad
philosing snark
>> because you are either being genuine
>> you convinced me
>> and rude
>> you convinced me all moral moral
foundations are completely unjustified.
And since all moral foundations are
completely unjustified, any facts we
build off of those are not going to be
justified.
>> Uh well, they're not going to be
exematically justified, but they can be
reasonable and coherent.
>> So it's still they're still unjustified.
>> Yeah, but we seem to like value these
things. It seems to produce good
outcomes.
>> But you could never say we seem we seem
we seem it seems to me like I that men
could collectivize and just beat the
[__] out of women, stuff them in cages,
too. That seems to me like a
possibility. Sure. The issue is
>> the there's no other men wouldn't like
that. Men are a class.
>> A lot of men would love it. They did it
for years. Half the world enslaves half
the women. What do you mean?
>> Okay. Men also freed a lot of women,
right?
>> And they also enslave them. Okay.